Add release notes for 1.58 (#92055)
rust-lang/rust: RELEASES.md

- [Error messages point at the source of trait bound obligations in more places][89580]

\* Refer to Rust's [platform support page][platform-support-doc] for more
   information on Rust's tiered platform support.

Libraries
---------

- [All remaining functions in the standard library have `#[must_use]` annotations where appropriate][89692], producing a warning when ignoring their return value. This helps catch mistakes such as expecting a function to mutate a value in place rather than return a new value.
- [Paths are automatically canonicalized on Windows for operations that support it][89174]
- [Re-enable debug checks for `copy` and `copy_nonoverlapping`][90041]
- [Implement `RefUnwindSafe` for `Rc<T>`][87467]
- [Make RSplit<T, P>: Clone not require T: Clone][90117]
- [Implement `Termination` for `Result<Infallible, E>`][88601]. This allows writing `fn main() -> Result<Infallible, ErrorType>`, for a program whose successful exits never involve returning from `main` (for instance, a program that calls `exit`, or that uses `exec` to run another program).

Stabilized APIs
---------------

- [`Metadata::is_symlink`]
- [`Path::is_symlink`]
- [`{integer}::saturating_div`]

> - [`Option::unwrap_unchecked`]

Reviewer: Also stabilized:

  - `Result::unwrap_unchecked` (https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/result/enum.Result.html#method.unwrap_unchecked)
  - `Result::unwrap_err_unchecked` (https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/result/enum.Result.html#method.unwrap_err_unchecked)

(same PR: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/81383).

Reviewer: Moved to https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/92693.

[`unix::process::ExitStatusExt::continued`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/os/unix/process/trait.ExitStatusExt.html#tymethod.continued
[`unix::process::ExitStatusExt::into_raw`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/os/unix/process/trait.ExitStatusExt.html#tymethod.into_raw
[`Duration::new`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/time/struct.Duration.html#method.new
[`Duration::checked_add`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/time/struct.Duration.html#method.checked_add
[`Duration::saturating_add`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/time/struct.Duration.html#method.saturating_add
[`Duration::checked_sub`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/time/struct.Duration.html#method.checked_sub
[`Duration::saturating_sub`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/time/struct.Duration.html#method.saturating_sub
[`Duration::checked_mul`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/time/struct.Duration.html#method.checked_mul
[`Duration::saturating_mul`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/time/struct.Duration.html#method.saturating_mul
[`Duration::checked_div`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/time/struct.Duration.html#method.checked_div

> [`Duration::as_secs_f64`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/time/struct.Duration.html#method.as_secs_f64

Reviewer 2: Do we also want to remove those references?

Reviewer 3: That shouldn't be publicly visible, someone can open a PR later removing that.

- [Add support for LLVM coverage mapping format versions 5 and 6][91207]
- [Emit LLVM optimization remarks when enabled with `-Cremark`][90833]
- [Update the minimum external LLVM to 12][90175]
- [Add `x86_64-unknown-none` at Tier 3*][89062]
- [Build musl dist artifacts with debuginfo enabled][90733]. When building release binaries using musl, you may want to use the newly stabilized strip option to remove these debug symbols, reducing the size of your binaries.
- [Don't abort compilation after giving a lint error][87337]
- [Error messages point at the source of trait bound obligations in more places][89580]

\* Refer to Rust's [platform support page][platform-support-doc] for more
   information on Rust's tiered platform support.

Libraries
---------

- [All remaining functions in the standard library have `#[must_use]` annotations where appropriate][89692], producing a warning when ignoring their return value. This helps catch mistakes such as expecting a function to mutate a value in place rather than return a new value.
- [Paths are automatically canonicalized on Windows for operations that support it][89174]

> - [Re-enable debug checks for `copy` and `copy_nonoverlapping`][90041]

Reviewer 3: Broken link (pointed out by @cuviper)

- [Paths are automatically canonicalized on Windows for operations that support it][89174]
- [Re-enable debug checks for `copy` and `copy_nonoverlapping`][90041]
- [Implement `RefUnwindSafe` for `Rc<T>`][87467]
- [Make RSplit<T, P>: Clone not require T: Clone][90117]
- [Implement `Termination` for `Result<Infallible, E>`][88601]. This allows writing `fn main() -> Result<Infallible, ErrorType>`, for a program whose successful exits never involve returning from `main` (for instance, a program that calls `exit`, or that uses `exec` to run another program).

Stabilized APIs
---------------

- [`Metadata::is_symlink`]
- [`Path::is_symlink`]
- [`{integer}::saturating_div`]
- [`Option::unwrap_unchecked`]
- [`NonZero{unsigned}::is_power_of_two`]

These APIs are now usable in const contexts:

- [`Duration::new`]
- [`Duration::checked_add`]
- [`Duration::saturating_add`]
- [`Duration::checked_sub`]
- [`Duration::saturating_sub`]
- [`Duration::checked_mul`]
- [`Duration::saturating_mul`]
- [`Duration::checked_div`]

> - [`Duration::as_secs_f64`]

Reviewer 2: I don't think any of the float methods are actually usable in const context: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/master/library/core/src/time.rs#L686

https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/89542 only stabilized:
```Rust
impl Duration {
    pub const fn new(secs: u64, nanos: u32) -> Duration;
    pub const fn checked_add(self, rhs: Duration) -> Option<Duration>;
    pub const fn saturating_add(self, rhs: Duration) -> Duration;
    pub const fn checked_sub(self, rhs: Duration) -> Option<Duration>;
    pub const fn saturating_sub(self, rhs: Duration) -> Duration;
    pub const fn checked_mul(self, rhs: u32) -> Option<Duration>;
    pub const fn saturating_mul(self, rhs: u32) -> Duration;
    pub const fn checked_div(self, rhs: u32) -> Option<Duration>;
}
```

Reviewer 2: cc @pietroalbini @tmandry

Reviewer 4: Confirming this is correct.

> - [`Duration::as_secs_f64`]
> - [`Duration::as_secs_f32`]
> - [`Duration::from_secs_f64`]
> - [`Duration::from_secs_f32`]
> - [`Duration::mul_f64`]
> - [`Duration::mul_f32`]
> - [`Duration::div_f64`]
> - [`Duration::div_f32`]
> - [`Duration::div_duration_f64`]
> - [`Duration::div_duration_f32`]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Version 1.58.0 (2022-01-13)
==========================

Language
--------

> - [Format strings can now capture arguments simply by writing `{ident}` in the string.][90473]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [Format strings can now capture arguments simply by writing `{ident}` in the string.][90473] This works in all macros accepting format strings. Support for this in `panic!` (`panic!("{ident}")`) requires the 2021 edition; panic invocations in previous editions that appear to be trying to use this will result in a warning lint about not having the intended effect.
```

- [`*const T` pointers can now be dereferenced in const contexts.][89551]
- [The rules for when a generic struct implements `Unsize` have been relaxed.][90417]

Compiler
--------

- [Add LLVM CFI support to the Rust compiler][89652]

> - [Stabilize -Z strip as -C strip][90058]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [Stabilize -Z strip as -C strip][90058]. Note that while release builds already don't add debug symbols for the code you compile, the compiled standard library that ships with Rust includes debug symbols, so you may want to use the `strip` option to remove these symbols to produce smaller release binaries.
```

- [Add support for LLVM coverage mapping format versions 5 and 6][91207]
- [Emit LLVM optimization remarks when enabled with `-Cremark`][90833]
- [Update the minimum external LLVM to 12][90175]
- [Add `x86_64-unknown-none` at Tier 3*][89062]

> - [Build musl dist artifacts with debuginfo enabled][90733]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [Build musl dist artifacts with debuginfo enabled][90733]. When building release binaries using musl, you may want to use the newly stabilized strip option to remove these debug symbols, reducing the size of your binaries.
```

- [Don't abort compilation after giving a lint error][87337]
- [Error messages point at the source of trait bound obligations in more places][89580]

\* Refer to Rust's [platform support page][platform-support-doc] for more
   information on Rust's tiered platform support.

Libraries
---------

> - [Add #[must_use] to Rc::downgrade][89833]
> - [Add #[must_use] to expensive computations][89835]
> - [Add #[must_use] to mem/ptr functions][89839]
> - [Add #[must_use] to remaining core functions][89897]
> - [Add #[must_use] to remaining alloc functions][89899]
> - [Add #[must_use] to len and is_empty][89786]
> - [Add #[must_use] to thread::Builder][89789]
> - [Add #[must_use] to alloc functions that would leak memory][90427]
> - [Add #[must_use] to remaining std functions (A-N)][90430]
> - [Add #[must_use] to remaining std functions (O-Z)][90431]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [All remaining functions in the standard library have `#[must_use]` annotations where appropriate][89692], producing a warning when ignoring their return value. This helps catch mistakes such as expecting a function to mutate a value in place rather than return a new value.
```

- [Paths are automatically canonicalized on Windows for operations that support it][89174]

> - [Re-enable `copy[_nonoverlapping]()` debug-checks][90041]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [Re-enable debug checks for `copy` and `copy_nonoverlapping`][90041]
```
This makes the function names easier to search for.

- [Implement `RefUnwindSafe` for `Rc<T>`][87467]
- [Make RSplit<T, P>: Clone not require T: Clone][90117]

> - [Implement `Termination` for `Result<Infallible, E>`][88601]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [Implement `Termination` for `Result<Infallible, E>`][88601]. This allows writing `fn main() -> Result<Infallible, ErrorType>`, for a program whose successful exits never involve returning from `main` (for instance, a program that calls `exit`, or that uses `exec` to run another program).
```

- [`Duration::checked_add`]
- [`Duration::saturating_add`]
- [`Duration::checked_sub`]
- [`Duration::saturating_sub`]
- [`Duration::checked_mul`]
- [`Duration::saturating_mul`]
- [`Duration::checked_div`]
- [`Duration::as_secs_f64`]
- [`Duration::as_secs_f32`]
- [`Duration::from_secs_f64`]
- [`Duration::from_secs_f32`]
- [`Duration::mul_f64`]
- [`Duration::mul_f32`]
- [`Duration::div_f64`]
- [`Duration::div_f32`]
- [`Duration::div_duration_f64`]
- [`Duration::div_duration_f32`]
- [`MaybeUninit::as_ptr`]
- [`MaybeUninit::as_mut_ptr`]
- [`MaybeUninit::assume_init`]
- [`MaybeUninit::assume_init_ref`]

Cargo
-----

- [Add --message-format for install command][cargo/10107]
- [Warn when alias shadows external subcommand][cargo/10082]

Rustdoc
-------

- [Show all Deref implementations recursively in rustdoc][90183]
- [Use computed visibility in rustdoc][88447]

Compatibility Notes
-------------------

- Windows: [`std::process::Command` will no longer search the current directory for executables.][87704]
- [All proc-macro backward-compatibility lints are now deny-by-default.][88041]
- [proc_macro: Append .0 to unsuffixed float if it would otherwise become int token][90297]

> - [Refactor weak symbols in std::sys::unix][90846]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [Refactor weak symbols in std::sys::unix][90846]. This optimizes accesses to glibc functions, by avoiding the use of dlopen. This does not increase the [minimum expected version of glibc](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/rustc/platform-support.html). However, software distributions that use symbol versions to detect library dependencies, and which take weak symbols into account in that analysis, may detect rust binaries as requiring newer versions of glibc.
```

Author: Thanks for all the added context!

- [rustdoc now rejects some unexpected semicolons in doctests][91026]

Internal Changes
----------------

These changes provide no direct user facing benefits, but represent significant
improvements to the internals and overall performance of rustc
and related tools.

> - [Try all stable method candidates first before trying unstable ones][90329]

Reviewer 5: I'd recommend moving this up to `Compatibility Notes`, and expanding it like this:

```suggestion
- [Try all stable method candidates first before trying unstable ones][90329]. This change ensures that adding new nightly-only methods to the Rust standard library will not break code invoking methods of the same name from traits outside the standard library.
```

- [Implement coherence checks for negative trait impls][90104]
- [Add rustc lint, warning when iterating over hashmaps][89558]
- [Optimize live point computation][90491]

> - [Enable verification for 1/32th of queries loaded from disk][90361]

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [Enable verification for 1/32nd of queries loaded from disk][90361]
```

- [`Duration::as_secs_f64`][89542]
- [`Duration::as_secs_f32`][89542]
- [`Duration::from_secs_f64`][89542]
- [`Duration::from_secs_f32`][89542]
- [`Duration::mul_f64`][89542]
- [`Duration::mul_f32`][89542]
- [`Duration::div_f64`][89542]
- [`Duration::div_f32`][89542]
- [`Duration::div_duration_f64`][89542]
- [`Duration::div_duration_f32`][89542]
- [`MaybeUninit::as_ptr`][90896]
- [`MaybeUninit::as_mut_ptr`][90896]
- [`MaybeUninit::assume_init`][90896]
- [`MaybeUninit::assume_init_ref`][90896]

Cargo
-----

- [Add --message-format for install command][cargo/10107]
- [Warn when alias shadows external subcommand][cargo/10082]

Rustdoc
----

- [Show all Deref implementations recursively in rustdoc][90183]
- [Use computed visibility in rustdoc][88447]

Compatibility Notes
-------------------

- Windows: [`std::process::Command` will no longer search the current directory for executables.][87704]
- [All proc-macro backward-compatibility lints are now deny-by-default.][88041]
- [proc_macro: Append .0 to unsuffixed float if it would otherwise become int token][90297]
- [Refactor weak symbols in std::sys::unix][90846]
- [rustdoc now rejects some unexpected semicolons in doctests][91026]

> - `RUSTFLAGS` is no longer set for build scripts. This change was made in

Reviewer 7: I think this should go under 1.55, since that's when the change was made. The release notes can be updated more frequently than once per release :P

Author: I was copying what cargo did with their release notes, but I tend to agree :)

Version 1.58.0 (2022-01-13)
==========================

Language
--------

- [Format strings can now capture arguments simply by writing `{ident}` in the string.][90473]
- [`*const T` pointers can now be dereferenced in const contexts.][89551]
- [The rules for when a generic struct implements `Unsize` have been relaxed.][90417]

Compiler
--------

- [Add LLVM CFI support to the Rust compiler][89652]
- [Stabilize -Z strip as -C strip][90058]
- [Add support for LLVM coverage mapping format versions 5 and 6][91207]
- [Emit LLVM optimization remarks when enabled with `-Cremark`][90833]
- [Update the minimum external LLVM to 12][90175]
- [Add `x86_64-unknown-none` at Tier 3*][89062]
- [Build musl dist artifacts with debuginfo enabled][90733]

> - [Fix CVE-2021-42574][90462]

Reviewer 8: [The lints for bidirectional Unicode characters seem to have already been stabilized in 1.56.1](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/90460) (1.56 and 1.57 needed separate pull requests since they were on the `stable` and `beta` branches, respectively).

Author: Yes, they weren't added to the release notes though. Maybe I should make a section for that patch version.

Author: Oops, nevermind.

- [Don't abort compilation after giving a lint error][87337]
- [Error messages point at the source of trait bound obligations in more places][89580]

> - [Link with default MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET if not otherwise specified.][90499]

Reviewer 9: This will be reverted once #91870 is backported to the beta.

\* Refer to Rust's [platform support page][platform-support-doc] for more
   information on Rust's tiered platform support.

Libraries
---------

- [Add #[must_use] to Rc::downgrade][89833]
- [Add #[must_use] to expensive computations][89835]
- [Add #[must_use] to mem/ptr functions][89839]
- [Add #[must_use] to remaining core functions][89897]
- [Add #[must_use] to remaining alloc functions][89899]
- [Add #[must_use] to len and is_empty][89786]
- [Add #[must_use] to thread::Builder][89789]
- [Add #[must_use] to alloc functions that would leak memory][90427]
- [Add #[must_use] to remaining std functions (A-N)][90430]
- [Add #[must_use] to remaining std functions (O-Z)][90431]

> - [Windows: Resolve `process::Command` program without using the current directory][87704]

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
- Windows: [`std::process::Command` will no longer search the current directory for executables.][87704]
```
Also I think this should be moved to Compatibility Notes?

- [Paths are automatically canonicalized on Windows for operations that support it][89174]
- [Re-enable `copy[_nonoverlapping]()` debug-checks][90041]
- [Implement `RefUnwindSafe` for `Rc<T>`][87467]
- [Make RSplit<T, P>: Clone not require T: Clone][90117]

> - [unix: Make `std::thread::available_concurrency` support process-limited number of CPUs][89310]

Reviewer 11: That's not a stable function. Is it normal to put unstable changes into the release notes?

Reviewer 11: That's also not the name of the function anymore.

Author: No, I missed that this was unstable. Thanks.

- [`unix::process::ExitStatusExt::stopped_signal`][88300]
- [`unix::process::ExitStatusExt::continued`][88300]
- [`unix::process::ExitStatusExt::into_raw`][88300]

These APIs are now usable in const contexts:

- [Partially stabilize `duration_consts_2`][89542]
- [`Duration::new`][89542]
- [`Duration::checked_add`][89542]
- [`Duration::saturating_add`][89542]
- [`Duration::checked_sub`][89542]
- [`Duration::saturating_sub`][89542]
- [`Duration::checked_mul`][89542]
- [`Duration::saturating_mul`][89542]
- [`Duration::checked_div`][89542]
- [`Duration::as_secs_f64`][89542]
- [`Duration::as_secs_f32`][89542]
- [`Duration::from_secs_f64`][89542]
- [`Duration::from_secs_f32`][89542]
- [`Duration::mul_f64`][89542]
- [`Duration::mul_f32`][89542]
- [`Duration::div_f64`][89542]
- [`Duration::div_f32`][89542]
- [`Duration::div_duration_f64`][89542]
- [`Duration::div_duration_f32`][89542]
- [`MaybeUninit::as_ptr`][90896]
- [`MaybeUninit::as_mut_ptr`][90896]
- [`MaybeUninit::assume_init`][90896]
- [`MaybeUninit::assume_init_ref`][90896]

Cargo
-----

- [Add --message-format for install command][cargo/10107]
- [Warn when alias shadows external subcommand][cargo/10082]

> Misc

Reviewer 7: It seems weird to label the above section "cargo" and this section "misc".
```suggestion
Rustdoc
```

----

- [Show all Deref implementations recursively in rustdoc][90183]
- [Use computed visibility in rustdoc][88447]

Compatibility Notes
-------------------

- [All proc-macro backward-compatibility lints are now deny-by-default.][88041]
- [proc_macro: Append .0 to unsuffixed float if it would otherwise become int token][90297]
- [Refactor weak symbols in std::sys::unix][90846]
- `RUSTFLAGS` is no longer set for build scripts. This change was made in
  1.55, but the release notes did not highlight this change. Build scripts
  should use `CARGO_ENCODED_RUSTFLAGS` instead. See the
  [documentation](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/environment-variables.html#environment-variables-cargo-sets-for-build-scripts)
  for more details.

> - [rustdoc doctest: detect `fn main` after an unexpected semicolon][91026]

Reviewer 7: Maybe mention https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/91398 ? That's the main reason this was marked relnotes.

Author: The bug is linked to from that PR, and I can't find examples of us linking to issues for other bug fixes, so I'd rather leave it as is.

Author: Rewording for clarity, though.
